Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu continues to defy domestic and
international pressure to sign a
ceasefire deal with Hamas in Gaza there
have been Mass protests in Israel
triggered by the recovery of six
captives found dead in Gaza on Saturday
Netanyahu has asked for forgiveness but
insists the war will continue heidis zo
Castro
reports thousands of Israelis took to
the street for a second day pushing past
police lines and converging near the
home of prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu in Jerusalem many blaming his
delay in signing a ceasefire deal for
the discovery of six more dead captives
in Gaza the government of Israel is a
threat to the world
peace for the first time since Mass
protests and a labor strike broke out
following Saturday's news of the Dead
captives n yahu addressed the
country I told the family and I will say
it again tonight I apologize and ask for
your forgiveness because we couldn't
bring them back alive we were close
close but we failed let me say this
again tonight Israel will not remain
silent on this massacre Hamas will pay
the price a very high price protesters
say Netanyahu is prioritizing military
gain over the return of captives
pointing to his continued insistence
that Israel maintain control of the
Philadelphia Corridor as part of the
ceasefire deal deal that's a non-starter
for Hamas and a reason us-led
negotiations have been stalled for weeks
US President Joe Biden said he was close
to presenting a final proposal but that
the Israeli Prime Minister hasn't been
doing enough to move the deal forward Mr
President do you think it's time for
prime minister Netanyahu to do more on
this issue do you think he's doing
enough no according to the Israeli
Health Ministry the six captives found
over the weekend were shot at close
range one or two days before their
bodies were discovered a Hamas military
spokesman says netanyahu's delay in
signing a ceasefire and prisoner
exchange deal made him responsible for
the deaths and that the Israeli Prime
Minister's insistence on freeing the
captives using military pressure would
mean more returning home in
coffins as 23-year-old Israeli American
HH Goldberg Poland was buried in
Jerusalem the aunt of another young
Israeli taken captive in Gaza said she
feared for him the same fate we were
crying the all morning because it was
like it's so frightening the feeling
that in one minute things can change and
people can die and we know we hope that
he's really alive and we can save him
Israel believes 101 captives remain in
Gaza including 35 who are thought to be
dead Heidi Jo Castro Al jazer
okay well now speak to Elan baruk who's
the chairperson of policy working group
that's an Israeli advocacy team focusing
on policy issues based on the two State
Paradigm he formerly served as Israel's
ambassador to South Africa welcome back
to Al jazer sir so um during the Press
briefing that Netanyahu gave um just
about less than 24 hours ago he argued
uh for what he said was the Strategic
imperative to keep Israeli troops
stationed along the Philadelphia
Corridor in Gaza what does this tell you
about netanyahu's plans for
Gaza well the horrific events on October
7 last year and are a waterers shed uh
for us Israelis for the Netanyahu
government for the
Palestinians and for the region at large
and nothing that um took place
before um is uh relevant anymore for the
future
Netanyahu um Beyond his position as
prime minister of Israel he is also a
strategist of the right-wing and his
Coalition extreme right-wing partners
that are actually uh bo uh applying
pressure on him and putting their
partnership in his Coalition at stake
and they believe that Israel is entitled
and indeed should for its security
maintain control over the entire
Territory between the River Jordan and
the coastline of the
Mediterranean now departing from
Philadelphia Corridor was argued and
disputed already in 2005 when Israel
left the territory uh in the context of
the
disengagement when uh shaon was prime
minister and uh it was always a question
if uh in Israel in the Israeli discourse
if we should have left the Gaza street
right or not and if you combine that
with what's happening right now in the
occupied West Bank I mean our reporter
was reporting of all the raids and
obviously the arrests and the killings
that have been going on we heard from
the Israeli foreign minister last week
who said that we need to address the
what he called the threat in the
occupied West Bank the same way as we
deal with Gaza including the temporary
evacuation of civilians I mean what is
the ultimate objective here then the the
future of the West Bank and the Israeli
presence in
it depends on who controls the Jordan
Valley if Israel is pushed by the
International Community to leave the
Jordan
Valley the right wing in Israel believes
Israel then becomes critically
vulnerable to uh attacks from the East
through
Jordan and
uh insisting on
Philadelphia is
actually preparing the the foreground
for a battle of Israel to maintain
control indefinitely of the Jordan
Valley and I want to remind you and the
listeners um the international court of
justice was requested by the general
assembly to advise on the legality of
the
occupation and in a large majority of
Judges it concluded that it is
not a legitimate because of the time
Factor because it is indefinite and
Netanyahu and his government they want
to
prove that um presence of
Israel in the occupied territories is a
legitimate necessity for the defense of
Israel and the Philadelphia Corridor
provides Israel with an opportunity to
uh argue for this
case so if that is the ultimate aim then
and Netanyahu is planning on staying in
the Philadelphia corriddor I mean Hamas
said look this is a non-starter for us
where does this all leave than any
potential for a ceasefire uh solution at
the same time we heard from the US
President Joe Biden who said that uh
we're close he said the US is in fact
very close to presenting a ceasefire
proposal I mean what does this all
mean yes the um Netanyahu finds himself
er er attacked in a pins movement so to
speak between the Israeli public who
wants to see the hostages freed
alive and the Americans who are saying
no you have not done enough and here in
Netanyahu realizes that with all the
patience the Americans are um
manifesting and I can tell you that the
people on my side are very impatient and
frustrated with the American
Administration the American
Administration should have pushed Israel
into action a long time ago way before
we were moving into Rafa and the
Philadelphia Corridor but now the
situation is that the Americans are
showing a a level of impatience with
Israel in their polite language while
the demonstrators are intensifying and I
can tell you from firsthand because I am
there every evening and uh it is a it is
a very strong message that is being sent
from uh the public at large in Israel on
that but I want to tell you that we in
our policy working group for the last
decade we told the International
Community our
interlocutors listen the situation is is
is uh not going to stay for for long it
will change between Israel and and
Palestine it will change either by force
by
violence or by International pressure
for years and years and years the
International Community the Americans
included sat on the fence on the
sidelines and waited for the two parties
to sort out the out the issues and I
think it is high time now that the
International Community will move in and
Kat is a player here right and uh and
uh create a process by which the this
the our conflict is um relaunched into a
peace process with a
settlement at the end of it okay Elan B
thank you so much for speaking to us
from West
Jerusalem thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz